There's so many different websites that you can use
to manage and track your spending.
I personally don't like putting any finance related
or personal data in the Cloud as it can easily get stolen,
no matter how secure your company says their information is.
It doesn't matter, okay?
And if you want to do this, if you wanna put stuff
up in the Cloud, like on Dropbox, whatever, personal stuff,
then just make sure your files are secure
and set a password for any document that you send online
to your accountant or others.
And so, if you wanna secure the Complete Personal Finance
Dashboard Excel file, just click on this button here,
called Secure This File, for information how to do so
including how to set up a password per this feature here
in the spreadsheet.
Note, I don't include any macros or code
in this Excel document.
Some people think that macros are a security issue
because it basically allows code to run on your computer,
which is a no no.
And so, let me move on now.
Here's a couple apps that you can decide to use
and if you want to, don't use your real name
when you use these apps, entering information.
Use a nickname instead, if you want and you're asked
to put in your name.
I always use the name Christopher (laughs)
as my name and not Chris, when registering for anything
not important to me.
So when I get emails that use the word Christopher
instead of Chris, I usually ignore them.
Except from your mom, I love you mom.
The first app we're gonna discus here
is actually pretty cool and they also have a website,
called Mint.com.
And here you can track your expenses, find savings
from your current spending patterns,
and this is a reputable site too, because this product here
is owned by Intuit, which I think
is the best finance software company on the planet.
And I prefer to track my expenses myself, in Excel,
as you know, hence the Excel spreadsheet
you're currently using for this course.
Okay, next up here, we have a company called Expensify.
And Expensify helps you track your expenses
and create expense reports.
Another one here is Concur, which is a company owned
by SAP, that lets you track expenses and create
expense reports as well.
Here we have one called MileIQ which is available
on Android and iOS, and it basically helps you
kind of track your mileage.
Or what you can do is just click on the mileage tracking
button here in the course, see here?
And enter in the dates, the mileage to and from an event,
the event category like charity, or work, or job search,
and then you can enter your comments as well.
'Cause some of this stuff is tax deductible.
You can ask your accountant about it.
And so I set this up for you, this mileage thing.
So you can, again, hit print if you want to
and it's already print formatted for you.
Or you can Save As PDF or Print to PDF and send it
to your account.
Okay, move down.
Other apps that people like that get good ratings,
there's one called Credit Karma, it's a cool name.
Credit Karma lets you improve your credit score.
And just please note that I'm gonna cover
what a credit score is and how to improve it
later in the course, in this lecture here.
Okay, great.
And then there's one called Albert (laughs),
Albert Money Managements.
It's another app that helps you organize your finances.
Then there's a couple more here.
There's WiseBanyan, here.
This is a financial advisor app that you can kind of
play around too if you want to.
And then just note that we're gonna cover investing
in a lot of detail in part three of this course.
And I hope you enjoy it because I've kind of,
I've taught investing before, but I did this
in a very unique, differentiated way.
It should be fun, I think you'll enjoy it.
Another one is called Clarity Money.
It's another popular one that can help you lower your bills.
And then there is one called Qapital, spelled Q-A-P-I-T-L,
with a Q, Qapital.
And it helps you save and meet your financial goals.
And then there's another one called Cover Insurance,
which is a popular insurance app.
We're gonna cover insurance in more detail later
in the course in this lecture here.
And then there's another one called Accounts to Checkbook.
That's pretty good reviews, actually, on this one.
And then there's also a very highly rated app
called Pennies, which has a really cool, simplistic
Airbnb type logo, less is more when it comes
to logos interface.
Okay, no more nerd talk for me, sorry.
Shoebox is another cool one you can use
for taking pictures and organizing your receipts.
And the last two I wanna show you here,
there's Quicken Mobile which, in the next two lessons,
what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna show you how to use
the desktop versions of Quicken on a Mac,
this is Quicken on a Mac.
And also, I'm gonna show you Quicken on Windows.
And they're both a little bit different.
So I'll go through these to you.
Obviously, you don't have to watch the next two lectures.
You can just watch one if you want or not at all.
(chuckles) I actually had to buy,
for I think it was $11, not bad on Amazon,
a DVD player, 'cause computers don't ship with them anymore,
or a CD player, so I could install these things
and explain it to you.
And so, if you're interested in running Quicken
on your computer, then just watch the next lecture,
next two lectures, if you're a Mac, skip the next lecture.
If you're usin' Windows, just watch the next lecture.
And I actually like, and the reason I bought these things
is because I wanna impress upon you how important it is,
if you're gonna manage your finances,
to do it on your computer and not in the Cloud.
Hence why I bought this CD drive, to show you guys
how to do this.
I prefer using my own spreadsheet.
But if you wanna use Quicken, again, I'm providing a menu
for you guys that you can use whatever format
or software application that you want to.
And as always, please let me know if you have questions.
Thanks.